In this video, I will introduce you to the transpose operation.
This is a very simple, very straightforward, easy to understand operation in linear algebra, but
it's super important.
And so I will show you first the math in the slides.
And then we'll switch to Python.
And I'll show you how to transpose vectors and matrices in NumPy and in PyTorch.
So let's get started.
Here we have a column vector.
And then we are going to transpose this column vector transpose operation is often indicated using a
capital T in the superscript.
So transposing means converting rows into columns and columns into rows.
So here we have a column vector.
Here we have a row vector resulting from the transpose operation.
Notice that all of the elements are the same.
The order of the numbers is the same.
So we're not really changing the information that's contained Inside of this vector, we are only changing
the orientation.
So column to row.
Now you can transpose a row vector.
And that's going to bring us back to our original column vector.
So transposing a transpose.
In other words double transposing undoes the original transpose.
So double transpose you get back to the original vector.
Now transposing a matrix is the same concept.
You just have to be a little bit more mindful of which of preserving the column order into the rows.
So when we transpose this matrix, it becomes this other matrix.
This is now a matrix with two long columns.
Here we have two long rows.
Now the tricky thing is just to remember that the first column turns into the first row.
So, you know, if you would visualize this as you know, the T here being a pivot, and then you swivel
the matrix up like this, if you would rotate this matrix, that's actually incorrect.
because then the second column would be the first row.
So make sure that the first column becomes the first row.
The second column becomes the second row.
Of course, this would continue for however many columns you have in this matrix would be rows in this
matrix.
Now, you will not be surprised to learn that the transpose of a transpose matrix is gives us back the
original matrix.
So again, double transposing gives us back the same thing.
Now I will switch to Python and show you how to implement the transpose operation.
I'm going to show you the transpose operation in numpy and in PyTorch.
So I run this cell to well it has to connect to the server.
Um, and uh yeah.
Then have all of the libraries being imported at the top of the code here.
And here I'm going to show you first using numpy.
So let's create a vector.
Now remember this is called an array in numpy.
but in linear algebra we would call this a vector.
So you can see this is a row vector right.
We have the parentheses here.
That's for the function numpy array.
And then we have one set of square brackets.
And that indicates that we want to input an array.
And then we have another square set of square brackets.
And this is used to indicate the first row.
So this is the first row of the matrix.
And then this is indicating that we are inputting a matrix.
And then we have the function call over here.
All right.
So print out this variable NP for numpy vector.
And then I'm going to transpose it.
So in numpy there's actually a couple of ways you can transpose a vector.
You can write numpy transpose NV like this so that you can use that to transpose.
But it's more common to just write dot t.
So this is a method on numpy array objects.
So dot t will transpose the vector.
Now here I'm not actually transposing the vector permanently, I'm only printing it out.
Transpose.
So this code here doesn't actually change the original orientation of variable NV.
So here I'm creating a new vector NV which is equal to the transpose.
And then I transpose that again.
That's just to show you that the original row vector becomes a column vector when it's transposed.
And then we set that to be a, we set that transpose vector to be its own variable.
And then we transpose that back.
And that gives us back our original row vector.
Okay.
So that was for a vector.
Now I'm going to repeat exactly the same thing.
All this code is exactly the same except for here.
Now this is a matrix.
So this is a two row matrix.
It's a two by four matrix.
It might be easier to visualize if you use multiple lines here like this.
So now you see that this is a matrix that comprises two rows, and each row has two, uh, sorry, four
columns.
Okay.
So we run this code and then you see here's our original matrix here.
We transposed it again.
Like I mentioned in the video, the first row becomes the first column.
And then when we transpose it back, the first column becomes the first row.
And of course same for the second column and the second row.
Okay.
So that's using PyTorch.
Now I started using numpy.
Now I'm going to show you the same operation, the same mathematical operation, but using PyTorch.
Fortunately this one is the same.
Almost the same.
We specify the data type differently.
This is fortunate because there are other cases.
There are other situations where the syntax or the notation is different between NumPy and PyTorch.
So sometimes numpy and PyTorch work basically the same.
Sometimes they work a little bit differently.
This is a case where they are more or less the same.
We just define this as a torch tensor instead of numpy dot array.
Otherwise it's the code is exactly the same.
You can see also.
This is showing us that we have a tensor here.
So this is a PyTorch tensor.
But yeah otherwise it's the same.
Okay then repeat for a matrix.
And again this is the same code as with numpy.
We just have PyTorch tensors.
So these are a different data type.
And just to show you that this is a different data type, here I'm printing out the names of the different
variables and the types of each of those variables.
So then you see this is a numpy ndarray.
Remember I said before that the ND is for n dimensional.
So this is stored internally as a multi-dimensional array.
And here these other variables starting with T.
These are the ones I created with PyTorch.
And these are of type torch tensor.